# 2.6 Clean up

Page 44-46

All containers use hard drive space to store logs, container metadata,
 and files that have been written to the container filesystem.
 All containers also consume resources in the global namespace
 such as container names and host port mappings. In most cases,
 containers that will no longer be used should be removed.


The processes running in a container should be stopped before
 the files in the container are removed. You can do this with
 the docker stop command or by using the `-f flag` on `docker rm` command.


## Different between `stop` and `kill`

About the `-f` in `docker rm`:

When you stop a process by using the `-f` flag,
Docker sends a `SIG_KILL` signal to terminates the process.

In contrast, `docker stop` will send a `SIG_HUP` signal. `SIG_HUP` give time to perform tear down tasks.
The `SIG_KILL` signal terminate the process abruptly and can result
in file corruption or poor network experiences.

You can issue a `SIG_KILL` to a container by using the `docker kill` command.

You should use `docker kill` or `docker rm -f` only if you must
 stop the container in less than the standard 30-second maximum stop time.


❓ Quetion to self: Not sure: I think `docker rm -f` is synonimous to `docker kill`.


## Avoid manual clean up with `--rm`

The `--rm` flag automatically remove the container as soon as
 it is in the `exited` state.

For example, the following command will write a message to the
 screen in a new BusyBox container, and the container will be removed as soon as it exits:

```
$ docker run --rm --name auto-exit-test busybox:1.29 echo Hello World
Hello World

$ docker ps -a
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE     COMMAND   CREATED   STATUS    PORTS     NAMES

```

## Tips

You should also use `-v` with remove:

```
docker rm -vf $(docker ps -a -q)
```



```
$ docker rm --help

Usage:  docker rm [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]

Remove one or more containers

Options:
  -f, --force     Force the removal of a running container (uses SIGKILL)
  -l, --link      Remove the specified link
  -v, --volumes   Remove anonymous volumes associated with the container```

